Invariants, Monovariants, whatever-variants, see what changes and what does not from start to finish.
Greedy: sorting, matroid, matroid intersection, add and remove, etc.
Backward solving.
Look at the constraints properly.
Thoroughly read the problem again.
Do your integers fit in int? Convert to long long when dealing with large bitshifts and what not. Check constants and single letter variables.
Assert the obvious. Dbg is your friend.
Try out cases, bruteforce for patterns if pc is available. If many people solved it, it is usually something simple. But don’t get stuck in trying to find patterns.
Try to simplify the problem, or solve simpler cases: functional graphs, DAGs, cycles, and strongly connected components instead of directed graphs; trees, cycles, and biconnected components instead of graphs; paths instead of trees; 1D instead of 2D; permutation instead of arrays; etc.
Pigeonhole principle, birthday paradox, inclusion-exclusion, double counting, etc.
Maybe your idea is fast enough in practice or maybe your complexity analysis is too loose.
BFS, DFS, BFS trees, DFS trees, hall-marriage for bipartite graphs.
Topological sorting can maybe make dp on DAGs faster or save memory.
Min cut is powerful for stuff like the project selection problem: n machines with cost q_i and m projects with revenue p_i, with each project requiring a set of machines.
SQRT decomp for time or memory, binary jumping, and other forms of divide and conquer. Online MO?
Two-pointer
Offline preprocessing
Games: nim, grundy, pattern, etc.
Geometry: isometries and other transformations (manhattan-to-chebyshev, translations, rotations, etc), line sweep, radial sweep, lots of sweeping. Turn other problems into geometry problems.
Hashing: strings, sets, multisets, rooted trees, ordered rooted trees, etc. Super powerful.
String: tries, suffix trees, suffix arrays, kmp, etc.
Randomization.
HLD, centroid decomp, treaps, seg tree, persistent seg tree, sliding window, etc.
FFT and friends: generating functions.
DP: memory optimization, CHT, LiChao, D&C, Knuth, functions as values, aliens trick, prefix sum, seg tree, etc. Remember about boundary cases.
Functional graphs, especially for permutation problems.
Bitwise or randomized for interactive problems with logarithmic number of allowed inputs.
